Press the green button to deploy the machine!
Please Note: This machine is for scanning purposes only. You do not need to log into it, or exploit any vulnerabilities to gain access.

If you are using the TryHackMe AttackBox then you will need to deploy this separately.

Answer the questions below
Deploy the attached VM
No answer needed
المرحله الاولي 
السوال الاول 
ما اول ما يتم لتجويه حركه مرور البيانات علي الخدما ت انه بالتاكيد 
ports 
الشوال التاني ما هي البرورتات التي في الشبكه انه سوال سهل حدا 
بحث من جوجل 
وستري انه 65535
السوال التالي ما هي المنافذ المعروفه انها 
1024 
منفذ 

task 2
When it comes to hacking, knowledge is power. The more knowledge you have about a target system or network, the more options you have available. This makes it imperative that proper enumeration is carried out before any exploitation attempts are made.

Say we have been given an IP (or multiple IP addresses) to perform a security audit on. Before we do anything else, we need to get an idea of the “landscape” we are attacking. What this means is that we need to establish which services are running on the targets. For example, perhaps one of them is running a webserver, and another is acting as a Windows Active Directory Domain Controller. The first stage in establishing this “map” of the landscape is something called port scanning. When a computer runs a network service, it opens a networking construct called a “port” to receive the connection.  Ports are necessary for making multiple network requests or having multiple services available. For example, when you load several webpages at once in a web browser, the program must have some way of determining which tab is loading which web page. This is done by establishing connections to the remote webservers using different ports on your local machine. Equally, if you want a server to be able to run more than one service (for example, perhaps you want your webserver to run both HTTP and HTTPS versions of the site), then you need some way to direct the traffic to the appropriate service. Once again, ports are the solution to this. Network connections are made between two ports – an open port listening on the server and a randomly selected port on your own computer. For example, when you connect to a web page, your computer may open port 49534 to connect to the server’s port 443.



As in the previous example, the diagram shows what happens when you connect to numerous websites at the same time. Your computer opens up a different, high-numbered port (at random), which it uses for all its communications with the remote server.

Every computer has a total of 65535 available ports; however, many of these are registered as standard ports. For example, a HTTP Webservice can nearly always be found on port 80 of the server. A HTTPS Webservice can be found on port 443. Windows NETBIOS can be found on port 139 and SMB can be found on port 445. It is important to note; however, that especially in a CTF setting, it is not unheard of for even these standard ports to be altered, making it even more imperative that we perform appropriate enumeration on the target.

If we do not know which of these ports a server has open, then we do not have a hope of successfully attacking the target; thus, it is crucial that we begin any attack with a port scan. This can be accomplished in a variety of ways – usually using a tool called nmap, which is the focus of this room. Nmap can be used to perform many different kinds of port scan – the most common of these will be introduced in upcoming tasks; however, the basic theory is this: nmap will connect to each port of the target in turn. Depending on how the port responds, it can be determined as being open, closed, or filtered (usually by a firewall). Once we know which ports are open, we can then look at enumerating which services are running on each port – either manually, or more commonly using nmap.

So, why nmap? The short answer is that it's currently the industry standard for a reason: no other port scanning tool comes close to matching its functionality (although some newcomers are now matching it for speed). It is an extremely powerful tool – made even more powerful by its scripting engine which can be used to scan for vulnerabilities, and in some cases even perform the exploit directly! Once again, this will be covered more in upcoming tasks.

For now, it is important that you understand: what port scanning is; why it is necessary; and that nmap is the tool of choice for any kind of initial enumeration.

Answer the questions below
What networking constructs are used to direct traffic to the right application on a server?

Ports
How many of these are available on any network-enabled computer?

65535
[Research] How many of these are considered "well-known"? (These are the "standard" numbers mentioned in the task)

1024
الان السوال القادم هو يحتاج لعض التركيز والتطبيق في الكالي لينكس علي الماشين 
ما هو sim scan 
انه معروف 
-sS
السوال التالي ما هو فحص ال udp 
nmap -sU
السوال التالي 
اذا كنت معرفه نوع النظام بالطبع 
-O 
او -A 
السوال التالي فحص الخدمات بالتاكيد 
-sV 
عرض نتائح الفحض والفحص يعمل انه سهل 
-v 
عرض اكثر النتائح 
-vv 
السوال التالي حفظ الفحص عن طريق nmap 
-oA 
كل الصيغ ايا كانت 
في الشكل العادي بالطبع 
-oN
اذ كنت تريد المزيد من التفاصيل او اوامر الاتخدام 
-oG
السوال التالي معرفه لمزيد م  التفاصيل في الفحص 
-A 
السوال التالي اعلي مستوي من مستويات الفحص 
-T5
فحص port 80 
ان سوال سهل 
-p 80 
السوال التاني فحص تحديد نطاق فخص ابورتات من 1000الي 15000 
-p 1000-1500
السوال التالي فحص كل البورتات 
-p-
السوال التالي لتغيل الاسكريت 
--script 
فحص البرامج الضعيفة 
nmap --script vuln 
او 
nmap --script=vuln

task 3 
Answer the questions below
What is the first switch listed in the help menu for a 'Syn Scan' (more on this later!)?

-sS
Which switch would you use for a "UDP scan"?

-sU
If you wanted to detect which operating system the target is running on, which switch would you use?

-O
Nmap provides a switch to detect the version of the services running on the target. What is this switch?

-sV
The default output provided by nmap often does not provide enough information for a pentester. How would you increase the verbosity?

-v
Verbosity level one is good, but verbosity level two is better! How would you set the verbosity level to two?
(Note: it's highly advisable to always use at least this option)

-vv
We should always save the output of our scans -- this means that we only need to run the scan once (reducing network traffic and thus chance of detection), and gives us a reference to use when writing reports for clients.

What switch would you use to save the nmap results in three major formats?

-oA
What switch would you use to save the nmap results in a "normal" format?

-oN
A very useful output format: how would you save results in a "grepable" format?

-oG
Sometimes the results we're getting just aren't enough. If we don't care about how loud we are, we can enable "aggressive" mode. This is a shorthand switch that activates service detection, operating system detection, a traceroute and common script scanning.

How would you activate this setting?

-A
Nmap offers five levels of "timing" template. These are essentially used to increase the speed your scan runs at. Be careful though: higher speeds are noisier, and can incur errors!

How would you set the timing template to level 5?

-T5
We can also choose which port(s) to scan.

How would you tell nmap to only scan port 80?

-p 80
How would you tell nmap to scan ports 1000-1500?

-p 1000-1500
A very useful option that should not be ignored:

How would you tell nmap to scan all ports?

-p-
How would you activate a script from the nmap scripting library (lots more on this later!)?

--script
How would you activate all of the scripts in the "vuln" category?

--script=vuln

task 4 
Answer the questions below
Read the Scan Types Introduction.

No answer needed
task 5 
السوال هو قم بتوصيل عمليات الفحص 
اذن 
rce 793
السوال التالي اي منفذ يجب ان يرسله السيرفر مره اخري 
rst 

Answer the questions below
Which RFC defines the appropriate behaviour for the TCP protocol?

RFC 793
If a port is closed, which flag should the server send back to indicate this?

RST

فحض الخادم حتي يكون هناك مزامنه 
half-open,Stealth
السوال التالي بالطبع n 

task 6 


Answer the questions below
There are two other names for a SYN scan, what are they?
Half-Open, Stealth
Can Nmap use a SYN scan without Sudo permissions (Y/N)?

N
السوال التالي ماذا لو ام يتستجب البوره بالطبع هناك فيرور شغال 
open filtered

السوال التالي البروتكول المستخدم في الاتصال 
icmp

task7

Answer the questions below
If a UDP port doesn't respond to an Nmap scan, what will it be marked as?
open|filtered
When a UDP port is closed, by convention the target should send back a "port unreachable" message. Which protocol would it use to do so?

ICMP
الطريقة الشائعة لتوصيل حذم البيانات 
هي 
xmas
السوال التالي خاص بانظمه الحماية الحديثة 
firwalls evathinos 
السوال التالي هو سهل 
ميكروسفت ويندوز 

task8

Answer the questions below
Which of the three shown scan types uses the URG flag?
xmas
Why are NULL, FIN and Xmas scans generally used?

Firewall Evasion
Which common OS may respond to a NULL, FIN or Xmas scan with a RST for every port?

Microsoft Windows

task 9 


Answer the questions below
How would you perform a ping sweep on the 172.16.x.x network (Netmask: 255.255.0.0) using Nmap? (CIDR notation)
nmap -sn 172.16.0.0/16

السسوال التالي سهل في اسكريبت nmap 
lua 
السوال اللي بعده 
بالطبع هو يوثر علي الهدف 
السوال التالي سيكون 
max 
task 10 
Answer the questions below
What language are NSE scripts written in?
Lua
Which category of scripts would be a very bad idea to run in a production environment?

intrusive

task 11
Answer the questions below
What optional argument can the ftp-anon.nse script take?

maxlist

task 12 
Answer the questions below
Search for "smb" scripts in the /usr/share/nmap/scripts/ directory using either of the demonstrated methods.
What is the filename of the script which determines the underlying OS of the SMB server?
smb-os-discovery.nse
Read through this script. What does it depend on?

smb-brute

task 13 
Answer the questions below
Which simple (and frequently relied upon) protocol is often blocked, requiring the use of the -Pn switch?
ICMP
[Research] Which Nmap switch allows you to append an arbitrary length of random data to the end of packets?

--data-length

task 14 
Answer the questions below
Does the target (MACHINE_IP)respond to ICMP (ping) requests (Y/N)?

N
Perform an Xmas scan on the first 999 ports of the target -- how many ports are shown to be open or filtered?

999
There is a reason given for this -- what is it?

Note: The answer will be in your scan results. Think carefully about which switches to use -- and read the hint before asking for help!

No Response
Perform a TCP SYN scan on the first 5000 ports of the target -- how many ports are shown to be open?

5
Open Wireshark (see Cryillic's Wireshark Room for instructions) and perform a TCP Connect scan against port 80 on the target, monitoring the results. Make sure you understand what's going on.

No answer needed
Deploy the ftp-anon script against the box. Can Nmap login successfully to the FTP server on port 21? (Y/N)

Y

task 15 
You have now completed the Further Nmap room -- hopefully you enjoyed it, and learnt something new!

There are lots of great resources for learning more about Nmap on your own. Front and center are Nmaps own (highly extensive) docs which have already been mentioned several times throughout the room. These are a superb resource, so, whilst reading through them line-by-line and learning them by rote is entirely unnecessary, it would be highly advisable to use them as a point of reference, should you need it.

Answer the questions below
Read the conclusion.
No answer needed
