Welcome to the second part of the reworked "Linux Fundamentals" series. We'll be applying our knowledge from the first installment in this series, so I highly recommend you completing that room before proceeding further.

In part 2, we'll be ditching the in-browser functionality and help you get started in what is a fundamental skill in being able to login to and control the terminals of remote machines. Not only this, but the room will also have you:

Unlocking the potential of your first few commands by introducing you to using flags and arguments
Advancing your knowledge of the filesystem to perform some more useful commands such as copying and moving files
Introducing you to the access mechanisms in place to keep files and folders secure and how to identify the things that our current user has access too
Running your first few scripts and executables!
task1
Answer the questions below
Let's proceed!
No answer needed
اولا علينا ان ناخذ اكسس للماشين 
والاتصال ب ssh 
بعد الحصول علي الاكسس 
سوف نكتب 
man ls 
سوف نلاحظ ان الاجابه عن النزول وقراه المساعده الاجابه ستكون 
down
اجابه السوال التالي 
لنري المزيد من help 
نستخدم الامر 
-h 

task 2
The in-browser functionality was used in Linux Fundamentals Part 1 to get you directly connected to your first ever Linux machine without any hassle.

In fact, the in-browser functionality uses the exact same protocol that we are going to be using today. This protocol is called Secure Shell or SSH for short and is the common means of connecting to and interacting with the command line of a remote Linux machine.

We will be deploying two machines in this room:

Your Linux machine
The TryHackMe AttackBox
What is SSH & how Does it Work?

Secure Shell or SSH simply is a protocol between devices in an encrypted form. Using cryptography, any input we send in a human-readable format is encrypted for travelling over a network -- where it is then unencrypted once it reaches the remote machine, such as in the diagram below.



You can learn about the various types of encryption on a TryHackMe room. But for now, we only need to understand that:

SSH allows us to remotely execute commands on another device remotely.
Any data sent between the devices is encrypted when it is sent over a network such as the Internet
Deploying Your Linux Machine

Press the green "Start Machine" button on the top-right of this task and then scroll to the top of the page to see the deployment information like so:

The IP address displayed is the address of your Linux machine that you will be logging into using SSH. Take note of this for now.

Deploying the TryHackMe AttackBox

Looking at the top of the page, press the "Start AttackBox" button to deploy the TryHackMe AttackBox that we will be interacting with. The TryHackMe AttackBox is a Ubuntu Linux machine that is hosted online in the cloud and can be interacted with via your browser. You will be using this to interact with the machine that you deploy in this task.




Using SSH to Login to Your Linux Machine

The syntax to use SSH is very simple. We only need to provide two things:

1. The IP address of the remote machine

2. Correct credentials to a valid account to login with on the remote machine



For this room, we will be logging in as "tryhackme", whose password is "tryhackme" without the quotation ("") marks. Let's use the IP address of the machine displayed in the card at the top of the room as the IP address and this user, to construct a command to log in to the remote machine using SSH. The command to do so is ssh and then the username of the account, @ the IP address of the machine.

But first, we need to open a terminal on the TryHackMe AttackBox. There is an icon placed on the desktop named "Terminal". And now, we can proceed to input commands.

For example: ssh tryhackme@MACHINE_IP . Replacing the IP address with the IP address for your Linux target machine. Once executed, we will then be asked to trust the host and then provide a password for the "tryhackme" account, which is also "tryhackme".



Now that we are connected, any commands that we execute will now execute on the remote machine -- not our own.

Answer the questions below
I've logged into the Linux Fundamentals Part 2 machine using SSH!
No answer needed

task3

Explore the manual page of the ls command
No answer needed
What directional arrow key would we use to navigate down the manual page?

down
What flag would we use to display the output in a "human-readable" way?

-h
سوف نستخدم الامر 
touch 
لعمل txt 
ثم سوف نعمل ls 
سوف نعمل الامر 
file 
لمعرفه نوع الملف 
سوف يظهر معنا نوع الملف 
ثم بعدها 
نعمل 
mv 
لنقل الملف 
اللي المكان المحدد له 
التالي 
سوف نكتب الامر التالي لقاره الملف 
cat myfile

task4
nswer the questions below
How would you create the file named "newnote"?

touch newnote
On the deployable machine, what is the file type of "unknown1" in "tryhackme's" home directory?
ASCII text
How would we move the file "myfile" to the directory "myfolder" 
mv myfile myfolder
What are the contents of this file?

THM{FILESYSTEM}
Continue to apply your knowledge and practice the commands from this task.

No answer needed
سوف نكتب الامر 
Ls -l 
يمكن ان نري ان 
user 2 
يمتلكه هنا 
الان نقوم بالتبديل الي المتسخدم 2
su user2
ثم نكتب الباسورد 
user2
سوف نفري الملف الموجود في المسار عبر الامر 
cat 

task5
Answer the questions below
On the deployable machine, who is the owner of "important"?
user2
What would the command be to switch to the user "user2"?
su user2
Now switch to this user "user2" using the password "user2"

No answer needed
Output the contents of "important", what is the flag?

THM{SU_USER2}
سوف نجيب علي السوال الاول 
الماسر الخاص بتسجيل السجلات 
/var/log
السوال التالي 
ماهو الملف الخاص بالذاكره وعند اعاده تشغيله الجهاز يمسح المملف انه جواب سهل 
انه 
tmp
/tmp
السوال التالي ما هي اعلي صلاخية في النظام 
انها بالتاكيد 
root
/root
task6
Answer the questions below
Read me!
No answer needed
What is the directory path that would we expect logs to be stored in?

/var/log
What root directory is similar to how RAM on a computer works?

/tmp
Name the home directory of the root user 

/root
Now apply your learning and navigate through these directories on the deployed Linux machine.

No answer needed
task7 
Nice work! This room was quite theory-heavy and covered quite a range of the fundamentals in getting you familiar with Linux. To quickly recap, this room taught you:

How to connect to a Linux machine remotely using SSH
Advancing your use of commands by providing flags, switches and where you can go to learn about these for each command (man pages)
Some more commands that you'll frequently be using to interact with the filesystem and its contents
A brief introduction to file permissions & switching users
A summary paragraph of the important root directories on a Ubuntu Linux install and how we may be able to use the data stored within these.
I encourage you to go through this room again once or twice to gain some familiarity with the concepts. After all, practice makes perfect! 

Answer the questions below
Proceed to the next task to continue your learning
No answer needed
task 8
Visit part three of the Linux fundamentals series here! https://tryhackme.com/room/linuxfundamentalspart3
Answer the questions below
Terminate the machine from task 2!

No answer needed
Join Linux Fundamentals Part 3!
No answer needed
